If it appears not to be a device (per section 201(h) of the FD&C Act) or such a combination product, or you are unsure, consult with the CDRH Jurisdictional Officer or the CBER Product Jurisdiction Liaison to determine the appropriate action, and inform division management. Provide a summary of the Jurisdictional Officer's/Liaison's determination. If the product does not appear to be a device or such a combination product, mark "No."
If the product is a device or a combination product with a device constituent part, is it subject to review by the Center in which the submission was received? If you believe the submission is not with the appropriate Center or you are unsure, consult with the CDRH Jurisdictional Officer or the CBER Product Jurisdiction Liaison to determine the appropriate action and inform your division management. Provide a summary of the Jurisdictional Officer's/Liaison's determination. If submission should not be reviewed by your Center mark "No."
If you believe the product or the indications presented in the 510(k) have changed from the RFD, or you are unsure, consult with the CDRH Jurisdictional Officer or the CBER Product Jurisdiction Liaison to determine the appropriate action and inform your division management. Provide summary of Jurisdictional Officer’s/Liaison’s determination.  If the answer to either question above is no, mark "No." If there was no RFD, mark "N/A."
If a 510(k) does not appear to be appropriate (e.g., Class III type and PMA required, or Class I or II type and 510(k)-exempt), you should consult with the CDRH 510(k) Program Director or appropriate CBER staff during the acceptance review. If 510(k) is not the appropriate regulatory submission, mark "No."
If yes, consult division management and the CDRH 510(k) Program Director or appropriate CBER staff to determine the appropriate action.
If yes, consult with the CDRH Office of Compliance/Division of Bioresearch Monitoring (OC/DBM) or CBER Office of Compliance and Biologics Quality/Division of Inspections and Surveillance/Bioresearch Monitoring Branch (OCBQ/DIS/BMB) to determine the appropriate action. Check on web at http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/ApplicationIntegrityPolicy/ucm134453.htm . If no clinical studies have been submitted, mark "N/A".